Let's take a first look at our course project which is a concurrent traffic simulation.
And with each new lesson you're going to add a few new features and the first lesson,
it's all about giving you an overview of the entire project. Let's start.
Okay. So, basically the purpose of the program is to simulate
traffic in a city grid with vehicles, streets and intersections.
And the default behavior is that,
vehicles that drive around randomly in the street grid and they
change direction every time they reach an intersection where two streets cross.
And each object in the city grid will run independently in its own thread.
So it's a concurrent simulation,
and we have to carefully manage all those threads and
carefully synchronize them in the entire project to avoid crashes,
to avoid undetermined behavior and to avoid concurrency errors in general.
But let's start slowly with the first few tasks which you will shortly see here.
Okay, your task in this lesson here is to first understand the code-base and then
complete it where needed to get the first running a version of the traffic simulation.
Now before we do this, let's take a quick look at
the layout of a program at its basic structure.
What you can see here is an overview on
the right-hand side is an overview of the different classes which we have.
So, we have an intersection, we have a vehicle,
and we have a street, that's the basic structure of the program,
the basic objects with which we will deal and there are
some default behaviors which all these these classes share.
They all have a position,
they all have a certain behavior when it comes to a painting them,
and so on and so forth,
and this is why I encapsulated all this default behavior in a base class traffic object.
That's not going to be an instance of traffic object itself,
that's going to be a virtual class,
and every class here intersection vehicles
street is going to be a child class of traffic object.
On the left-hand side here,
you can see all the files which belong to the project in its current state.
We have intersections, we have streets,
we have the traffic objects and we have traffic simulator L1 which is
the main code file in which everything is started.
Last but not least, we have the vehicle class.
What I did not mentioned until now is the graphics class,
this class here takes a vector filled with traffic objects,
everything there is in the simulation,
and it's going to be painted to a real city grid which is
basically a screen shot from a top view perspective on some cities.
We have New York City,
we have Paris and that's where the vehicle simulation is going to be run.
Now here, you can see the basic structure of the program absolve lesson one.
This is going to be enhanced later on but for now it's basically
consisting of two major flows of execution here.
Now on the left-hand side,
what you can see is the flow of execution in the main function,
and the first thing, we're going to look at the code really shortly.
The first thing which is going to happen is,
we're going to create and connect to each other the intersections and the streets.
We have one street between two intersections and they have to know about
each other to manage the flow of vehicles through the traffic layout here.
Second thing which is going to happen is,
we're going to add a street and a target intersection to a vehicle,
so each vehicle needs the street on which it can
drive and also it needs the destination to which it can go to,
and this is the target intersection.
Then, we will have a simulation start of
all the vehicles and the green line here indicates that for each vehicle,
there will be an own proprietary thread which is started up,
which basically codes the vehicle drive function,
but first let's stay in the main function.
So once the thread has been started up,
let's say we have five vehicles or four.
We will have four threads running in parallel and once they're fired up,
the main function is free to execute and
then we are going into the visualization part here,
and it's an infinite loop here,
which is indicated by this cycle here,
and in this infinite loop,
there is a visualization of all the traffic objects where
the position is going to be updated every few milliseconds,
I think it's run at 30 hertz currently in its current setting,
so this function here ensures that everything apart from being simulated,
is also visualized nicely.
But let's now move to the vehicle of drive functioning are so similar,
vehicles takes as a thread function drive,
and drive is basically responsible for managing the entire traffic here.
We start in drive by initializing a stopwatch,
once we have done so,
we are entering a loop,
the loop basically can be seen here,
if you follow my mouse cursor,
this is the main simulation loop of the vehicle which also never finishes,
it's running within an infinite loop.
The first thing which happens in each cycle
of the loop is we are computing the time difference to
the stopwatch to see how much time has passed
between now and the last call of this thread function here.
Based on the time having passed,
we are updating the vehicle position on the street.
Behind this is a constant velocity motion model,
we are going to take a look at this in the college very soon.
But now we have an updated vehicle position based on its final position and
the speed of the vehicle as well as its heading its destination.
The next thing which happens is,
we are checking if the vehicle has reached the end of
the street because the default behavior we want to see is,
we want the vehicle to slow down for it reaches an intersection,
and then drive very carefully at reduced speed one tenth
of its former speed to be honest into the intersection.
So, in order to do this,
to find this point in time where it has reached,
I think the parameters that you 90 percent of the street lengths,
and once it has reached this point,
it's going to slow down and drive carefully into the intersection and then
it changes direction into a new target destination on a new street,
and this is meant by this last block here.
A vehicle picks a new destination once it's within the intersection and then
crosses intersection to drive along towards it's new intersection.
Afterwards, we reset the stopwatch and enter the cycle again.
Before we take a look at the code,
let's see how the simulation looks in the final result.
This is what's going to be the workflow at the end of lesson one, right now,
in the student version of the code will not perform like this,
there will be nothing moving,
and it's your job to fulfill a few tasks and
the output once you have finished your tasks is supposed to look exactly like this.
So let's take a look here.
So, the green dots are the intersections,
in-between two green dots, there's a street.
The street is currently not visualize because it's positioned in a way that
it corresponds to a street in the photograph, in the background,
and the large circles,
these are the vehicles,
and as you can see, a vehicle approaches and intersection,
slows down a little bit,
then once it's in the intersection,
it accelerates towards a new destination and so on and so forth.
Also, you can see that the vehicles are at some points in time,
there are two vehicles in an intersection and one of the next lessons,
we will try to avoid this,
for example here, two vehicles in the intersection,
and the job in the next lesson will be to make sure that
only a single vehicle can enter intersection at the same time.
But right now, in lesson one,
it's about understanding code-base,
and also managing this basic flow vehicles through the city grid.
Now task L1.1, is going to be the following in the base class traffic object,
set up a thread barrier in its destructor that
ensures that all thread objects at the point
of destruction of the traffic object will be joined by all the threads.
I mean all the threads which have been
stored in the private member on these code threads.
Task L1.2, we are going to fill this vector,
because the job will be in the vehicle class which is a child class of traffic object,
to start a thread with a member function drive and the object,
this has the launch parameters at the appropriate position in the code.
Also, add the created thread into the underscore thread vector of the parent class.
So, basically after adding the vectors in task L1.2,
the completion of tasks L1.1 ensures that every thread which has been
started will also be joined again before everything is quit.
Okay, the last task L1.3,
please vary the number of similar vehicles and use
the top function on the terminal as we have seen in the first section of this lesson.
On the terminal or the task manager,
if you're using Windows of your system,
to observe the number of threads used by the simulation.
So your job is to find out
how many threads are run by the current version of the simulation.
Also, I don't know,
take two vehicles, take 20 vehicles,
take five vehicles, see how the function profile performs,
and also look at the CPU load which it takes to
simulate this number of vehicles and see how the number of threat difference.
That's the last task L1.3, and now,
let's take a look at the code to see where those changes have to be performed.